>> Steve Kinney: So, VS code has support
for these things called extensions, and
there are lots of them,
there's a bunch of ways you can find them,
you could theoretically just
start searching for them.
There are some recommended
ones as well as you can see,
you could also go by the most popular,
recently published could be anything.
Recommended are the really,
what you think they are it's Docker or
Python, right so on and so forth.
There are some categories that you
can kind of explore depending on,
what it is that you're looking for,
so on and so forth.
So, I went through my own setup and
pulled out some of my favorites,
I will warn you right now,
the ones that I love the most
are the silliest, right.
And then I asked all of my coworkers for
some recommendations.
And then I did Google best
VS code extension and
opened five tabs and read some of them.
So, this is a compiled list some of
these if it is a language that you use,
for instance, I also use bun a lot so
having some of those little bindings,
those aren't particularly special.
Let's go to the notes, though,
where I've got a bunch of extensions
that I put in alphabetical order
as not to play any favorites.
We are not gonna go through all of these
one by one, but I will kind of pick and
choose a few and then we'll grab a few
from the audience and life will be good.
First, we're gonna go with what
I'm gonna argue is the most
important extension that I use,
the last on the list.
This one is called toggle quotes,
right and
what it does is it adds
a new keyboard binding,
either command, single quote or control.
And I feel the only way
to truly understand,
make sure I uninstalled
a bunch of extensions before.
But I'm sure, and
then I tried to play a game of which
ones did I actually feel the need to
put back toggle quotes came back.
Because I installed them and
then went to my normal day job, and
I just tried to see how many of them
should up which I think is an important
practice every once in a while.
Clear out everything and then see what
comes back cuz I found something there
then I'm I don't remember installing this.
All right, so
toggle quotes let me explain to you so
the glory that is toggle quotes.
So where's my index.js in
the playground there it is, okay so
let's say you have a string,
>> Steve Kinney: And
all of a sudden, you're like, I wish this
was one of those fancy template strings
with the back ticks go inside the string.
You hit command, and
you toggle between double quote,
single quote, and back tick.
>> Steve Kinney: I love this extension,
it is my favorite extension.
It is the one extension that I
cannot live without, I know,
that seems dumb, and I love it,
[LAUGH] right and it makes me happy.
And whatever, like that way if all of
a sudden need to be, especially for
a much bigger string.
Or all of a sudden, I realize there is
an apostrophe in there or quotes or
I need to do that the template
literal thing of like.
>> Steve Kinney: Right if it was
this one now, I could switch it and.
>> Steve Kinney: And get to the same
basic thing it's dumb I love it it's my
favorite.
All right, so that is one let's
see what else we've got in here.
That is nice okay,
this one also great if you work
on multiple projects and
you do them all in VS code,
there is a chance that you will
forget which window you were in.
The dumbest version of this, which I'm
sure that no one can relate to, but
I can relate to myself with this one.
Sometimes you are writing code,
sometimes you are writing a ton
of marked down that happens
to have code blocks in it.
Sometimes when you are tired,
you are editing the code in
the markdown code block, hitting save,
refreshing your browser and
wondering why nothing's changing.
What peacock does is it
allows you to kind of like
define a very subtle color for
every window.
So, if you're like your back-end code,
you might choose to have it like red for
ruby, I don't know, and your front-end
code might be blue for typescript.
So it is very in your face which
project you are in, right?
The only issue is that when we
get into settings in a second,
there is user settings,
workspace settings, and global settings.
This is a workspace setting, and if your
team decides they're gonna check those
into version control, you gotta at
least have a conversation, right?
But you will never forget which
project you are in if one is
bright yellow and
the other one is cyan, right?
Again, my favorite ones
are clearly the silliest, but
some of these simple ones are incredibly,
incredibly useful.
Another one that I really
like is indent rainbow,
all it does is color codes my indents,
there used to be one for
making the brackets rainbow too,
but that's not built into VS code.
So like that was another
one that I enjoyed, but
I don't need to enjoy it
anymore cuz it's built in yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Do you have one,
not to jump ahead, but
do you have one that does color your
brackets so if you're in a nested.
>> Steve Kinney: It's
by default these days.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Steve Kinney: Right if we kind of,
>> Speaker 2: Right, prettier or
whatever's built in, isn't it?
>> Steve Kinney: There's also prettier
extension unclear what's built in at this
point,
>> Speaker 2: Okay
>> Steve Kinney: Mostly because sometimes,
when you've had it, always you forget,
if it's built in but if you look,
you can kind of see that the first
one is purple, the next one is blue.
After that, it's yellow, like that
used to be an extension that I used,
it was like bracket colorizer
>> Speaker 2: That's it,
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, and
the only reason I don't use it
anymore is cuz it's now built in.
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Steve Kinney: I actually only learned
that when I uninstalled all the extensions
in preparation for this and
then didn't have to reinstall it.
Cool what else is on the list that I like,
and I will talk about some of
the other ones that other people like.
In a second, EditorConfig is a standard,
which is you've probably seen a lot
of repos, there's .EditorConfig,
which is like this.
We use spaces and not tabs,
we use two spaces as the indent.
If a .EditorConfig is in the repo,
VS code will respect
those settings that's it.
The GitLens one, which I don't
normally use, we talked about,
has a bunch of features and
most importantly IntelliSense.
>> Steve Kinney: This one is pretty cool,
this one will actually cuz we all,
none of you do this,
but we all have a coworker that
puts a to-do in the comments.
They're never gonna do that to-do right?
It's never gonna happen this
will at least make it so
that it's like a lot easier to find,
right?
And you can kind of see them in a tree and
colorize them, etc.
Like again,
the ones I use the most are very simple.
Other ones that I think are popular,
the Tailwind IntelliSense,
basically auto completes tailwind
classes and also sorts them so
that you don't have to fight with people.
In the same way prettier,
which just formats everything in a way
that maybe no one fully loves, but
we don't talk about it anymore.
Trying to think the other ones,
this again,
a super simple one, auto rename tag.
Should you be in HTML and
you change the opening tag,
it will change the closing tag yeah.
>> Speaker 3: I don't know if it's auto
renamed, I mean, that's one I use, but
I run into problems with that sometimes
it can help a little too much.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah no sometimes it
causes more problems than it's worth.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Steve Kinney: I will be honest this
one has probably reason why it has three
and a half stars when it works and
it does the right thing, it's great.
Doesn't always do the right thing, I think
this one's currently turned off for me,
but it shows back up
every once in a while.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, if you turn it off,
you'll want it back.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah and
if you turn it on, you'll want it off.
Yeah, I think that's fair color info,
you hover over it,
you see the color info again?
Again, my favorite ones we've got
some more extreme ones in a second,
I'm starting with the subtle ones,
I'm sure the ones from the crowdsource
ones will be a little bit more compelling.
But the ones that I tend to
use are the simplest ones,
mostly because before there
was setting sync, and
before there was the ability to
save all your settings with JSON.
There was a period of time where
MacBooks had terrible keyboards, and
I ended up with a new computer
from it every six months.
And my tolerance for
a heavily customized setup dropped in ways
that I've never fully recovered from.
>> Speaker 4: What's that Gremlins track?
>> Steve Kinney: Okay,
Gremlins tracker sounds cooler than it is.
There are a lot of Unicode characters that
are kind of like not great in HTML or
code, like a curly quote
versus a straight quote,
there used to be an editor called BB Edit.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I know them.
>> Steve Kinney: It was great, I mean,
there still probably is
an editor called BB Edit.
That was mean like, and it had a function
called Zap Gremlins, which would
straighten all your weird curly quotes and
all that stuff and remove all of those.
This one doesn't actually zap them,
it just, puts a little, monster dude.
But it's also kind of built into Versus
code in a much more subtle way but
there's no real way to zap them,
which is unfortunate.
>> Speaker 4: That usually happens when
you, copy paste every stuff, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
no it's when you got a little copy paste.
Copy and pasting word, stuff from the
Internet or word, stuff from the Internet
where the Blog then took the code straight
quotes and now your code doesn't work.
That's really, at least now, instead of
losing like half an hour tracking that
down on why your code doesn't compile.
You can at least do a little gremlin and
know what the problem is, since there's no
way to zap them, though, and I don't
know how to make them on purpose so
if I copy and paste something, we see it.
What I do normally is I grab them
you'll see them a little in VS code,
they're also in a little Amber rectangle.
And then I multi curse of them, and I
make them go away, so that'll work, okay?
So a few more that I
think are super cool or
actually we're not gonna do
too much with GitHub copilot,
because depending on who you are,
it may or may not be free.
And I'm not gonna make you all subscribe
to something the depends on who you are,
which is there is some heuristic that
if you have enough open-source code,
you get it for free.
I work at a company that has an open
source product also all these repos that
I do for Friday and Masters are all open,
so it looks I know I get it for free.
But many people don't, but
there's a bunch of it's just,
you've seen a lot of that kind of
auto complete or in a new file.
I can ask you to do stuff, but
there's a bunch of other really
interesting ones to take a look at.
One of which is, there is a chatgpt
extension that all that it does is,
if you have the Mac app,
right, you can go here.
I know it's still in an update while
I'm like live coding, I'm not a rookie.
You can hook it up to VS Code and
then it has access to whatever
the files that are open in VS Code are.
And then can either use this context or
edit the files for you with
an ability to look at it first because the
stuff is not to be trusted all the time.
So, like for instance,
if I took a real file here and I go back,
you can see that it has access to math.js,
which is the active editor tab
that I had opened in that window.
It will only do the ones that are like,
if you have two splits so
it's actually these I got
a bunch of weird files here.
You'll see that,
all I see is math here, but
if I do a split with index
being the other active,
editor tab in another editor group,
you'll see both of them, right?
And now if I ask you questions,
I'm how do I refactor this?
It knows what this is, right?
It has access into Versus code.
It can apply those changes and
that's cool and useful sometimes.
There's a few other integrations
in there as well as you can see.
Notes, notion,
you might see different things depending
on what apps you have installed.
But if you do wanna, hook it into Versus
Code or you found yourself, copy and
pasting stuff and
then copy and pasting it back.
This is arguably a better workflow.